---
id: erc1155
title: ERC1155 Deposit and Withdraw Guide
sidebar_label: ERC1155
description: Build your next blockchain app on Matic.
keywords:
  - docs
  - matic
image: https://matic.network/banners/matic-network-16x9.png
---

This tutorial uses the Matic Testnet ( Mumbai ) which is mapped to the Goerli Network to demonstrate the asset transfer to and fro the two blockchains. An **important thing to be noted** while following this tutorial is that you should always use a Proxy address whenever it is available. For eg. The **RootChainManagerProxy** address has to be used for interaction instead of the **RootChainManager** address. The **PoS contract addresses, ABI, Test Token Addresses** and other deployment details of the PoS bridge contracts can be found [here](/docs/develop/ethereum-matic/pos/deployment).

**Mapping your assets** is necessary to integrate the PoS bridge on your application. You can submit a mapping request [here](/docs/develop/ethereum-matic/submit-mapping-request). But for the purpose of this tutorial, we have already deployed the **Test tokens** and Mapped then on the PoS bridge. You may need it for trying out the tutorial on your own. You can request the desired Asset from the [faucet](https://faucet.matic.network/). If the test tokens are unavailable on the faucet, do reach us on [discord](https://discord.gg/er6QVj)

In the upcoming tutorial, every step will be explained in detail along with a few code snippets. However, you can always refer to this [repository](https://github.com/maticnetwork/matic.js/tree/v2.0.2/examples/POS-client) which will have all the **example source code** that can help you to integrate and understand the working of PoS bridge.

## High Level Flow

Deposit ERC1155 -

1. **_Approve_** **_ERC1155Predicate_** contract to spend the tokens that have to be deposited.
2. Make **_depositFor_** call on **_RootChainManager_**.

Withdraw ERC1155 -

1. **_Burn_** tokens on matic chain.
2. Call **_exit_** function on **_RootChainManager_** to submit proof of burn transaction. This call can be made **_after checkpoint_** is submitted for the block containing burn transaction.

## Step Details

---

### Approve

This is a normal ERC1155 approval so that **_ERC1155Predicate_** can call **_transferFrom_** function. Matic POS client exposes **_approveERC1155ForDeposit_** method to make this call.

```jsx
await maticPOSClient.approveERC1155ForDeposit(rootToken, tokenId, { from });
```

### Deposit

Deposit can be done by calling **_depositFor_** on RootChainManager contract. Note that token needs to be mapped and approved for transfer beforehand. Once tokens are transferred deposit proceeds using StateSync mechanism. Matic POS client exposes **_depositSingleERC1155ForUser_** & **_depositBatchERC1155ForUser_** method to make this call.

```jsx
await maticPOSClient.depositSingleERC1155ForUser(
  rootToken,
  from,
  tokenId,
  amount,
  { from, gasPrice: "10000000000" }
);
```

```jsx
await maticPOSClient.depositBatchERC1155ForUser(
  rootToken,
  from,
  [...tokenId],
  [...amount],
  { from, gasPrice: "10000000000" }
);
```

**_deposit_** function of **_ChildToken_** is called by the **_ChildChainManager._** Tokens should be minted when this call is made.

### Burn

User can call **_withdraw_** function of **_ChildToken_** contract. This function should burn the tokens. Matic POS client exposes **_burnSingleERC1155_** & **_burnBatchERC1155_** method to make this call.

```jsx
await maticPOSClient.burnSingleERC1155(rootToken, tokenId, amount, {
  from,
  gasPrice: "10000000000",
});
```

```jsx
await maticPOSClient.burnBatchERC1155(rootToken, [...tokenId], [...amount], {
  from,
  gasPrice: "10000000000",
});
```

**Store the transaction hash for this call and use it while generating burn proof.**

### Exit

Once the **_checkpoint_** has been **_submitted_** for the block containing burn transaction, user should call the **_exit_** function of **_RootChainManager_** contract and submit the proof of burn. Upon submitting valid proof tokens are transferred to the user. Matic POS client exposes **_exitBatchERC1155_** & **_exitSingleERC1155_** method to make this call.

```jsx
await maticPOSClient.exitSingleERC1155(burnTxHash, { from });
```

```jsx
await maticPOSClient.exitBatchERC1155(burnTxHash, { from });
```
